Where next for New Horizons?
So, the New Horizons probe was launched
in 2006 and took 18 years to traverse
the solar system, fly by Pluto, marked
in blue there, and then reach the
previously unknown object now called
Aricoth in 2019. and it's carried on
hurtling away out into the outer part of
the solar system. It's uh the fastest
spacecraft we've ever sent in that
direction.
Having completed its flyby of Pluto, it
had fuel left and that enabled it to
make a small course correction to take
in Arathov and it still has some fuel
remaining. So, it may be possible to
find a new target for it.
It's now 60 astronomical units from the
sun. That's twice the distance of
Neptune and heading away rapidly. And
this year it's in a fairly quiet mode.
It's just listening and waiting,
measuring the solar wind, the magnetic
field, the radiation out there in the
very far reaches of the solar system.
The spacecraft itself carries numerous
instruments. It has lorry which is the
long range imager but it also has the
SDC the student dust collector created
by students designed and built by them
from the University of Colorado Boulder.
And this has been collecting dust grains
microscopic fragments all the way along
the journey. and it's produced an
interesting result during this post
encounter flyby uh pair that we've
already had.
And this has shown us that it's
unexpectedly dusty out in the region
between 45 and 55 astronomical units. So
quite a large uh 10 astronomical unit
wide belt seems to contain more dust
than the models had previously
envisaged. And you can see the data for
the rise in the dust towards the right
hand end there. Quite large error bars
but nevertheless you can see that the
point is going up whereas the models
shown in red and black were that it
should drop away.
Now one explanation is that this is dust
pushed outwards by solar radiation
pressure. the momentum carried by the
solar wind and by the sunlight hitting
the particles giving them a push out
further away from the sun. But another
possibility is that there is actually
more ice crystals out there in deep
space in general than we had thought and
that perhaps when they get closer in
towards the inner part of the solar
system, the heat from the sun is
destroying them.
and we've underestimated it all the way
along. Um, couple of intriguing
possibilities.
Now, out at a distance of 47.8
astronomical units,
this is the position where Kepler's laws
of planetary motion tell us that an
orbit will take just double the time
that Neptune takes to go around the sun.
That's 165.5 years. So if you double
that up, you get what? 321 years. A one
to two resonance.
And that's an interesting position
because it's an unstable resonance. It
will tend to give you the same
gravitational tug every time you pass
Neptune. Neptune will be in the same
position
and so it will gradually alter your
orbit.
But up until very recently, it's been
believed that this was the outer edge of
the Kiper belt. The number of objects
would suddenly drop off a cliff. Hence
the name the Kiper cliff. And so the
belt of these uh KBOs, these Kiper belt
objects starting round about that uh 35
36 astronomical units builds up at 38 to
a reasonable peak and then falls away
again. So by the time you get to 50 AU,
there's very little. Uh there are one or
two peaks shown on the the diagram here.
And that's interesting because we've
been finding new ones. The Subaru
telescope, sponsored by the Japanese,
but actually placed in Hawaii, has found
new trans neptunian bodies, bodies that
orbit beyond Neptune in the solar
system. And many of these are actually
orbiting well beyond the so-called Kiper
cliff uh in the region around 60 70
astronomical units maybe even extending
as far out as 80.
Now this points to the fact that perhaps
the Kiper belt isn't as constrained as
we thought and stretches further away
from the sun. But it also might indicate
that there's essentially a second belt
beyond the one we already know. And this
diagram of the number of Kiper belt
objects based on distance kind of shows
that there is that peak between about uh
30 and 60 AU and then another peak
perhaps smaller one out around the 80 AU
mark. So maybe we're beginning to learn
that there is in fact a double belt
structure to this outer part of the
solar system. And this could account for
that result from the SDC, the student
dust collector.
Perhaps collisions between this
unexpectedly large number of objects out
there
is the source of all of that dust. Maybe
objects smash into each other and the
dust is just fragments that are
scattered into that uh extremely
extended region.
Well,
it's really going to be very very
interesting now that we have the Vera
Rubin telescope online. This telescope
is a three mirror design with an eight
meter primary mirror giving it a very
wide field of view just over 3°
across the field. That's much much wider
than other designs can manage. And it's
down to the fact that it has those three
mirrors that allows it to get sharp
images all the way to the edge of that
threederee field.
And what it's designed for is a
largecale survey.
It's going to create a movie, they say
the largest movie uh ever in astronomy.
It's going to take a series of 30
secondond long images all over the sky,
each covering a 3x3 degree field, so
just under 10 square degrees. and it's
going to repeat this many many times
going back over the same area time and
time again. And that will allow a a
movie to be made of all of these
individual areas of the sky. The initial
run is supposed to be 10 years, but I
think it'll probably run a lot longer
than that. And the first runs are
already producing data. This is just uh
from night seven and uh there have been
over 2,000 asteroids in the asteroid
belt between Jupiter and Mars that were
located.
All those little uh pale blue dots
marked the positions of moving objects
that were detected between a number of
frames that were taken. A number of
images revealed all these positions to
have changed by enough to suggest that
they're orbiting around about that 2.8
astronomical unit distance from the sun
in the Mars Jupiter gap. And it's likely
that we're going to find an awful lot
more of these. We're probably going to
be running into the millions before long
in the asteroid belt.
But looking further out, it should also
be able to pick up kiper belt objects.
Now, these move so much more slowly. Um,
it takes a a long time for them to uh be
seen to have moved from one frame to
another. So, you you're going to need to
have more than just a few images to do
this. And certainly, if you want to be
able to determine their orbit, it's
necessary to study them for a longer
period of time. But I think the Vera
Rubin will produce a huge number of
discoveries in the Kiper belt as well.
And it's very very likely that some of
these will lie ahead of the trajectory
of the New Horizon's probe. And with
luck, the remaining fuel will allow us
to
take a car correction and arrange a
close flyby of at least one. Maybe we'll
get lucky and it'll be more than one.
Who knows? But even if we can't get
terribly close, we'll still be able to
turn the camera back on, the lorry, the
long range camera, and take images of
these objects. And the advantage of
doing that, even if it's not a close
flyby, is that it gives you a different
aspect angle, looking at them from the
side rather than from the front. And
that can tell us things about how the
light is scattering off them. It's not
quite as exciting as seeing them up
close and personal with a close flyby
like we did with Pluto and Sharon and
Aricov,
but it also allows us to plan future
space missions. Now, that's all well and
good, but it's probably going to take 25
years to fly a spacecraft all the way
out to any of these very distant
objects, even longer if we want to slow
down um and do anything more than just a
very rapid one-off flyby.
So, thanks very much for listening to
that short video about the prospects for
new targets, for new horizons, and how
the Vera Reuben telescope is going to
help us find some.